doc/howto/docker.md, before:

---
slug: docker
---

# Building a docker image

Building a docker image is much simpler with Nix compared to writing `Dockerfile`. Since the entire build process is handled by Nix flakes, most of what's left to do for docker image creation is copying of the derivations and configuration.

## Writing the Nix to build the docker image

Consider a haskell-flake project "foo". To copy the binaries generated by the `default` package to `/bin` on the image,  one can use `copyToRoot` attribute offered by [`dockerTools.buildImage`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/stable/#sec-pkgs-dockerTools). For example:

```nix
{
  # Inside perSystem
  packages.dockerImage = pkgs.dockerTools.buildImage {
    name = "foo";
    copyToRoot = pkgs.buildEnv {
      paths = with pkgs; [
        self'.packages.default
      ];
      name = "foo-root";
      pathsToLink = [ "/bin" ];
    };
  };
}
```

In addition to copying over the flake `packages`, we may also copy *paths* in the project. `self` can be added to `paths` to expose the project directory. 
```nix
{
  copyToRoot = pkgs.buildEnv {
    paths = with pkgs; [
      coreutils
      bash
      self
    ];
    name = "foo-root";
    pathsToLink = [ "/foo_sub" "/bin" ];
  };
}
```
If you'd like your docker image to run your haskell project's default package when the container starts, use the following config:
```nix
{
  # Inside dockerImage's `buildImage`
  config = {
    Cmd = [ "${pkgs.lib.getExe self'.packages.default}" ];
  };
}
```

## Build the docker image

To build the docker image *as a Nix derivation*, run:

```bash
nix build .#dockerImage
```

To load this image into your local docker image registry, run:

```bash
docker load -i $(nix build .#dockerImage --print-out-paths)
```

## Tips

If you don't want `docker images` showing that the image was created several decades ago, use the following:
```nix
{
  # Inside perSystem.packages' `dockerImage`:
  pkgs.dockerTools.buildImage {
    name = "foo";
    created = "now";
  };
}
```

If you want to tag the images with the commit id of the working copy:

```nix
{
  # Inside perSystem.packages' `dockerImage`:
  pkgs.dockerTools.buildImage {
    name = "foo";
    tag = builtins.substring 0 9 (self.rev or "dev");
  };
}
```
[`builtins.substring 0 9 self.rev`](https://nixos.org/manual/nix/stable/language/builtins.html#builtins-substring) is the same as `git rev-parse --short HEAD`. `self.rev` is non-null only on a clean working copy and hence the tag is set to `dev` when the working copy is dirty.


## Example

- [Sample flake-parts module for docker](https://github.com/nammayatri/nammayatri/pull/14/files#diff-18ea3dd9a6a84702796b8dac608d0cad8e396a7c2e8c52732fcb7e5f52d1b0b9)

Commit message:

[DOCS/docker.md] Included the tip to use justStaticExecutables (#109)
* docs:docker.md: included the tip to use justStaticExecutables


Co-authored-by: Sridhar Ratnakumar <3998+srid@users.noreply.github.com>

doc/howto/docker.md, after:

---
slug: docker
---

# Building a docker image

Building a docker image is much simpler with Nix compared to writing `Dockerfile`. Since the entire build process is handled by Nix flakes, most of what's left to do for docker image creation is copying of the derivations and configuration.

## Writing the Nix to build the docker image

Consider a haskell-flake project "foo". To copy the binaries generated by the `default` package to `/bin` on the image,  one can use `copyToRoot` attribute offered by [`dockerTools.buildImage`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/stable/#sec-pkgs-dockerTools). For example:

```nix
{
  # Inside perSystem
  packages.dockerImage = pkgs.dockerTools.buildImage {
    name = "foo";
    copyToRoot = pkgs.buildEnv {
      paths = with pkgs; [
        self'.packages.default
      ];
      name = "foo-root";
      pathsToLink = [ "/bin" ];
    };
  };
}
```

In addition to copying over the flake `packages`, we may also copy *paths* in the project. `self` can be added to `paths` to expose the project directory. 
```nix
{
  copyToRoot = pkgs.buildEnv {
    paths = with pkgs; [
      coreutils
      bash
      self
    ];
    name = "foo-root";
    pathsToLink = [ "/foo_sub" "/bin" ];
  };
}
```
If you'd like your docker image to run your haskell project's default package when the container starts, use the following config:
```nix
{
  # Inside dockerImage's `buildImage`
  config = {
    Cmd = [ "${pkgs.lib.getExe self'.packages.default}" ];
  };
}
```

## Build the docker image

To build the docker image *as a Nix derivation*, run:

```bash
nix build .#dockerImage
```

To load this image into your local docker image registry, run:

```bash
docker load -i $(nix build .#dockerImage --print-out-paths)
```

## Tips

### Size

Packages in `self'.packages` are shipped with symlinks to other store paths, like `$out/lib`, `$out/nix-support` and `$out/share/doc`. Along with these, enabling profiling or haddock can also increase the size of the package that you ship. Thus, you will want to strip all but the executables before copying the package to the docker image. This can be achieved using `justStaticExecutables`:

```nix
  # Inside perSystem
  packages.default = pkgs.haskell.lib.justStaticExecutables self'.packages.foo;
```

### Time

If you don't want `docker images` showing that the image was created several decades ago, use the following:
```nix
{
  # Inside perSystem.packages' `dockerImage`:
  pkgs.dockerTools.buildImage {
    name = "foo";
    created = "now";
  };
}
```

### Tag

If you want to tag the images with the commit id of the working copy:

```nix
{
  # Inside perSystem.packages' `dockerImage`:
  pkgs.dockerTools.buildImage {
    name = "foo";
    tag = builtins.substring 0 9 (self.rev or "dev");
  };
}
```
[`builtins.substring 0 9 self.rev`](https://nixos.org/manual/nix/stable/language/builtins.html#builtins-substring) is the same as `git rev-parse --short HEAD`. `self.rev` is non-null only on a clean working copy and hence the tag is set to `dev` when the working copy is dirty.


## Example

- [Sample flake-parts module for docker](https://github.com/nammayatri/nammayatri/pull/14/files#diff-18ea3dd9a6a84702796b8dac608d0cad8e396a7c2e8c52732fcb7e5f52d1b0b9)
