doc/start.md, before:

---
order: -10
---

# Getting Started

Before using `haskell-flake` you must first [[nix|install Nix with Flakes enabled]].

## Existing projects

To use `haskell-flake` in an *existing* Haskell project, run:

```sh
nix flake init -t github:srid/haskell-flake
```

Open the generated `flake.nix` and change `self'.packages.example` to use your package name. For example, if your package is named `my-package` (with a `my-package.cabal` file), change `example` to `my-package`. Follow the comments along the `flake.nix` to make any necessary changes to the project configuration.

## New projects

To create a *new* Haskell project, instead, run:

```sh
mkdir example && cd ./example
nix flake init -t github:srid/haskell-flake#example
```

### Template

You may also use https://github.com/srid/haskell-template which already uses `haskell-flake` along with other opinionated defaults.

## Under the hood

When nixifying a Haskell project without flake-parts (thus without haskell-flake) you would generally use the [[nixpkgs-haskell|raw Haskell infrastructure from nixpkgs]]. haskell-flake uses these functions, while exposing a simple modular API on top: your `flake.nix` becomes more [declarative](https://github.com/srid/haskell-template/blob/304fb5a1adfb25c7691febc15911b588a364a5f7/flake.nix#L27-L39) and less [imperative](https://github.com/srid/haskell-template/blob/3fc6858830ecee3d2fe1dfe9a8bfa2047cf561ac/flake.nix#L20-L79).

In addition, compared to using plain nixpkgs, haskell-flake supports:

- Auto-detection of local packages based on `cabal.project` file (via [haskell-parsers](https://github.com/srid/haskell-flake/tree/master/nix/haskell-parsers))
- Parse executables from `.cabal` file 
- Composition of dependency overrides, and other project settings, via [[modules]]

## Next steps

Visit [[guide]] for more details, and [[ref]] for module options. If you are new to Nix, see [[basics]]. See [[howto]] for tangential topics.

Commit message:

Modular overrides (#162)
 **Completely new way to override Haskell packages**: removed `overrides` and `source-overrides`. Use `packages` to specify your source overrides; use `settings` to override individual packages in modular fashion (like NixOS modules). Additional changes include:
  - Add `package.<name>.cabal.executables` referring to the executables in a package. This is auto-detected by parsing the Cabal file.
  - Add `packages.<name>.local.*` to determine of a package is a local package or not.
  - Add `projectFlakeName` option (useful in debug logging prefix)
  - `flake.haskellFlakeProjectModules`: Dropped all defaults, except the `output` module, which now exports `packages` and `settings`. Added a `defaults.projectModules.output` option that allows the user to override this module, or directly access the generated module.
  - Add `project.config.defaults.settings.default` defining sensible defaults for local packages.
  - Add `project.config.defaults.enable` to turn off all default settings en masse.

Also, disable docs test due to https://github.com/hercules-ci/flake.parts-website/issues/332

doc/start.md, after:

---
order: -10
---

# Getting Started

Before using `haskell-flake` you must first [[nix|install Nix with Flakes enabled]].

## Existing projects

To use `haskell-flake` in an *existing* Haskell project, run:

```sh
nix flake init -t github:srid/haskell-flake
```

Open the generated `flake.nix` and change `self'.packages.example` to use your package name. For example, if your package is named `my-package` (with a `my-package.cabal` file), change `example` to `my-package`. Follow the comments along the `flake.nix` to make any necessary changes to the project configuration.

## New projects

To create a *new* Haskell project, instead, run:

```sh
mkdir example && cd ./example
nix flake init -t github:srid/haskell-flake#example
```

### Template

You may also use https://github.com/srid/haskell-template which already uses `haskell-flake` along with other opinionated defaults.

## Under the hood

When nixifying a Haskell project without flake-parts (thus without haskell-flake) you would generally use the [[nixpkgs-haskell|raw Haskell infrastructure from nixpkgs]]. haskell-flake uses these functions, while exposing a simple modular API on top: your `flake.nix` becomes more [declarative](https://github.com/srid/haskell-template/blob/304fb5a1adfb25c7691febc15911b588a364a5f7/flake.nix#L27-L39) and less [imperative](https://github.com/srid/haskell-template/blob/3fc6858830ecee3d2fe1dfe9a8bfa2047cf561ac/flake.nix#L20-L79).

In addition, compared to using plain nixpkgs, haskell-flake supports:

- Auto-detection of local packages based on `cabal.project` file (via [haskell-parsers](https://github.com/srid/haskell-flake/tree/master/nix/haskell-parsers))
- Parse executables from `.cabal` file 
- Modular interface to `pkgs.haskell.lib.compose.*` (via `packages` and `settings` submodules)
- Composition of dependency overrides, and other project settings, via [[modules]]

## Next steps

Visit [[guide]] for more details, and [[ref]] for module options. If you are new to Nix, see [[basics]]. See [[howto]] for tangential topics.
